Add release notes for August (#838)
microsoft/cadl: docs/release/release-2022-08-10.md

# Release Notes August 2022 (2022-08-10)

This release contains **breaking changes**

- Operation parameters without decorators
- OkResponse is no longer a template
- Route resolution changes
- Remove `Map` type
- `@path` may not decorate optional properties or parameters without a default value

## Operation parameters without decorators

A single undecorated (not marked `@query`, `@header`, `@body` or `@path`) operation parameter will now become a property of the request body rather than have its type define the request body. This allows defining the body with multiple unannotated parameters, which can include unannotated properties that are spread into parameters. (Previously, more than one unannotated parameter was an error.)

For example, the following used to define a request body of type `string`, but now defines a request body that is an object with a property named `body` of type string.

> ```javascript

Reviewer: should those not be `cadl`?

Author: The formatter was complaining about that, but happy to change

Author: We used javascript in the previous version.  At least locally, I get better colorization with this

Author: fixed.

```javascript
op list(): Pet[];

```

Generic models based on `OkResponse<T>` may also require `Body<T>`. For example:

```javascript
model MyResponse<T> {
  ...OkResponse<T>;
  @header example: string;
}

```

Since T is not constrainted to be a model, it might be an intrinsic type, an array, or the like, the template should be changed to use `Body<T>`:

```javascript
model MyResponse<T> {
  ...OkResponse;
  ...Body<T>;
  @header example: string;
}

```

In general, the prior `OkResponse<T>` is equivalent to `OkResponse & Body<T>` now or, equivalently, `{ ...OkResponse, ...Body<T> }`. In practice there are many situations where you can leave out OkResponse altogether and use plain `T` rather than `Body<T>`.

See also https://github.com/microsoft/cadl/blob/main/docs/tutorial.md#request--response-bodies

## Route resolution changes

Resolving operation routes now follows the following logic:

- if there is a service namespace specified
  - only emit the operations and interfaces under that namespace(recursively)
- if not:
  - only emit the operations and interfaces defined at the root (DO NOT look into namespaces)

### Action if applicable

> - If a cadl specused a service namespace without `@serviceTitle` add the `@serviceTitle` decorator to the service namespace, otherwise no routes will be emitted.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- If a cadl spec used a service namespace without `@serviceTitle` add the `@serviceTitle` decorator to the service namespace, otherwise no routes will be emitted.
```

##### Resolve by making additional namespaces children of the service namespace

Make any added namespaces children of the service namespace

```javascript
import "@cadl-lang/rest";

using Cadl.Http;

@serviceTitle("My Service")
namespace Foo {
  @route("in-service")
  op test(): void;
}

namespace Foo.MyLib {
  @route("my-lib")
  op test(): void;
}

```

## Remove Map type

`Map` type was removed. Usages of `Map<string, T>` can be replaced with new type `Record<T>`. Other usages of `Map` may be replaced with `object`.

### Map using string key type

```javascript
model Foo {
  options: Map<string, string>;
}

```

#### Replace with `Record<T>`

```javascript
model Foo {
  options: Record<string>;
}

```

### Map using non-string key type

```javascript
model Foo {
  options: Map<int32, string>;
}

```

#### Replace with `object`

```javascript
model Foo {
  options: object;
}

```

## `@path` may not decorate optional properties or parameters without a default

Properties and parameters marked with the `@path` decorator should be required, but may be optional if they have a default value

### optional path parameters

```javascript
model Foo {
  @path
  name?: string;
}
```

> Was a bad practice, but was allowed in previous versions. This will not throw an error diagnostic.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Was a bad practice, but was allowed in previous versions. This will now throw an error diagnostic.
```
